What runs now, printed the same way every time: the board counts and every agent process on this
machine (claude, codex, agy, gemini), each with its session name, pid, model, effort, minutes
running, the issue references in its command line, and whether it is a session, a run or a
resumed run. The runs an agent started stand indented under it. Under the table, REACH names the
command that reaches each agent, as its CLI reports it: claude attach <id> for a background
session, claude --resume <session id> for an interactive one, codex resume <id> where the
system shows the codex session file a process holds open, and a dash where nothing reports one.
Who works on what and what comes next is not measured; the coordinator says it, from what it
knows. Where no agent runs, and with
--tokens, it prints the usage windows, the pace, what an issue costs, the tokens and the context
of the day, the open work, and what is ready to close or open on the last column. No model is
involved: status.sh and status.ps1 read the board and the process list, and lib/status.mjs
counts, so both print the same page.

Without --tokens or --issues the page ends with two blocks git answers at that moment. TESTING
lists every card in the column after implementing with where its work is live: the newest commit
on the default branch that names the issue, and per environment of LIVE_TAGS in
.ai-core/config.env the first release tag by date that contains it. A tag's date is an annotated
tag's own, and a lightweight tag's commit's. The first environment is the last stage: a card live
there is 🟢; one live on a later environment only is due for its proof there, 🟡, and 🔴 once
that environment has carried it longer than PROOF_HOURS. TREES lists the issue worktrees
`finish-issue --sweep --dry-run` keeps whose last commit or uncommitted change is older than a
day, with the sweep's reason. The clone of each repository with a card in testing, the folder
whose origin is that repository, is fetched once per call, for at most a minute.

  ai-core status [--project N] [--tokens] [--issues]
    the board of the repository you stand in, or board N; --issues adds every open issue, by
    epic, to the --tokens page
